1	:::	Newton used prisms for day light. Fistly used white light and saw that whirte color composed the other colors. After that, he used lights from different color and he saw that other colors doesn't compose colors. Only white light composed all other colors. But hooke didn't think like that.
2	:::	newton said white light is all colors composed.
3	:::	Newton rejected Descartes' that foe Rousseau this doesn't work at the nights Newton believed that the eye, viewer light must travel from object to the current, And he proposed that the light had a verity The light has wove-like qualities. Mathematica is the basis of many scientific studies Voltaire is the most believer to Newton. He published a book which has Norton 3 ideas Lavoisier is the founder of modern Chemistry. Science produces facts ideas represent facts - words express ides Lavoisier told that we can improve a science without improving the language or name which belongs to it Best Low of motion - Low of Interior A body remains at most or moves in straight line, untrasacted by a outside force This low tells that how the motion change when a fance acts upon 3rd Low Low of Reciprocal Actions For action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. every Newton designed the reflecting telescope. white light The odor spectrum was explained as weakness of white light. white bright to blue dork-outs weakness. Newton What are those Greats approach was more about finding facts rather then explaining but Newton's approach to find rules about adapt to Math how the universe works and Observing moons of the Jupiter the on revolution begin with It started with improvement of printing What is the one goal of discovering natural low? Being able to predict future, First Law. The orbit of ever planet is an eclipse with sun Second Law Planets sweeps out equal areas during equal times The ratio of square of on object's orbital with the cube of same major avis is some for all objects. According to 
4	:::	He made the day light go through a prism and split it into many colors thus proving light is made of many colors and also proved that light travels instead of instantly appearing on things.
5	:::	In a dark room he made light go directly through a prisma and created a color spectrum. This proved that white color was made up of all other colors. However he also recognized some spaces in this spectrum. This was due to some elements absorb certain wavelenghts. This discovery also is being used as deducting what stars are made of.
6	:::	He said the white light is not pure and used two prisms two prove it. He realized the white light split out the other colors however on the second prism he realized the orange light does not split. He also said that the sun light does not come directly and he works wıth the speed of light. He found the distance of moon from the speed of light and proved that the day light does not come dırectly to the earth. 
7	:::	crucial experiment. It was to refract light onto a piece of wood. he was able to obtain a beam of light with a pure color. He could show that blue light.
8	:::	"What experiment did Newton do to explain the day light to dispute Hooke
scientific theory believed descartes image lens objective white church dark called days discovered kepler mathematics microscopy newton observation orbit principia speed surface able accurate authority bodies color colors copernican distance electron elements focal laws newtons planets prism revolution straight theories universe world angle century change circular curve episode eyepiece galileos gravity independent knowledge mars moving newtonian optical pressure proportional rays spectrum stars acted based beam book conflict constant direction elliptical enlightenment equal experimentation focus gravitational ideas improve language large left lenses life mass mechanical mirror modern moves natural nature orbits pendulum perfect published smith space system telescopes towards understand understanding velocity acting activity acts agent apparent arises aristotle arrive axis belief bend bruno calendar cambridge causes circle circles closest composed concluded consistent copernicus data determine developed difference divided earths economic encyclopedia english established euclid explained eye famous firmament forward french geometry hence hold hooke human including increases inductive information invention invisible jefferson jupiter labor length lunar magnifying mathematician minutes motions move objects observations observed outside own pass path period plane precise probably process promote public purchased ray reasoning return revolve sample scanning scientists society square swing technological travel tube tycho tychos universal unless using various vital wealth thcentury accelerates acceleration according accuracy accurately achieve adopted aether force microscopy white light dark episode electron microscope natural law objective lens scientific revolution straight line th century force acting law motion light travel motion earth motion law observation experimentation vital agent white color angle light arises motion atomic force attracting body bodies perfect body exerts calendarthe julian called objective
light sun motion law force object earth time moon science telescope body center galileo line microscope planet 
law "
9	:::	"Discovered that white light was composed of the 
all colors of the spectrum;

The experiment was like: Newton take two prism and made a model that day light coming from a hole 
to dark closed place and made light inside prism then chose a color and made the choosen color get inside prism
but second time there wasnt spectrum but just same color
so hooke was wrong, prism dont create spectrum but split it. 


"
10	:::	"hooke said other colors added to white. light is born with pressure  of sun.but newton realized that is false because at night there is sun but no light
Reflection of telescope
newton transmission theory is said light is travel between bodies,light is particular and has velocity 
"
11	:::	According to Newton, light comes from objects to our eyes.
12	:::	Newton used  to refract light onto a piece of wood, into which had been drilled a small hole so when white light comes in this piece of wood there were a color spectrum. By the way according to this experiement the white light wasn't a light.
13	:::	It was Isaac Newton  who put forward the theory that light consisted of minute corpuscles in rapid motion. Owing to the extraordinary influence of Newton, this corpuscular theory held sway in the scientific world for a very long time. he thought wave theory of light.
14	:::	What experiment did Newton do to explain the day light to dispute Hooke 
15	:::	
16	:::	newton thought that white light is composed of other color when we   strike light with 90 degree it not bend .with 45 degree it s most bent  . and it s colour came around ı meaan if you strike it like rainbow .. 
17	:::	There is some evidence that he took advantage of his position to appropriate some of those ideas as his own, which gave rise to his tarnished reputation.Be that as it may, at that time of rapidly expanding scientific knowledge in which there were always several researchers working on the same ideas.He exhibited plenty of evidence of ingenuity and experimental skills. 
18	:::	Newton did that he send light into a prism that refracted the light onto a white piece of paper with that he saw different colors.  
19	:::	Newton use prisma. Light go into prisma and he observed different colors of light. He called that spectrum. He also use reflecting telescope, he observed different colors and some black lines.
20	:::	newton sendwhite  light to first prism and he knew that he will see the approach rainbow colors and after that he used second prism and isolated send an orange light but he did not obsarvation white light so he determined white light spectrums and weakness
21	:::	He bought something to understand how light is made from. He first tries to get light orange from white light( bir mercekten geçirerek ). In the second step (after getting orange color) he put another (mercek) after the first one. The result had made him schoked. Because after putting the second (mercek)  he gets nothing. So, he understands that light (white) is made of other colors.
22	:::	
23	:::	He was able to obtain beam of light with pure colors. he was able to show blue light for instance, when refracted through a second prism yielded again only blue light.
24	:::	"What experiment did Newton do to explain the day light to dispute Hook
 He observed spectrum of the day light contains different colors rainbow  
And he noticed if sun light come to different angle  there will be different color ."
25	:::	
26	:::	"What experiment did Newton do to explain the day light to dispute Hooke 

Newton devised the reflecting telescope,refraction of white light in a prism.

Newton’s Light : he adopted a particulate definition of light.he’s transmission theory,assumed that light had a velocity.Observed that light has wave.



Invented differential and integral calculus .Discovered that white light was composed of the colored rays of the spectrum.
Law of gravity,Zeno’s Paradox…

1st Law of Motion:Law of Inertia: If an external force doesn’t act,the object remains motionless.2nd Law of Motion: F=m.a .3rd Law  of Motion: Law of Reciprocal actions:For every action,there is an equal and opposite force.

Law of universal gravitation :G.m1.m2/r^2

Newton devised the reflecting telescope,refraction of white light in a prism."
27	:::	"What experiment did Newton do to explain the day light to dispute Hooke ? 
law of inertia 
solar
electric,energy,nature proton shadow gravity sun moon observe life conflict

"
28	:::	People think that she light of sun comes to eyes directly but Newton did not accepted that . He observed the sun with telescope .  
29	:::	Newton's crucial experiment was to refract light onto a piece of wood, into which had been drilled a small hole. In this way, he was able to obtain a beam of light with a pure color. He was able to show that blue light, for instance, when refracted through a second prism yielded again only blue light.
30	:::	Electro magnetic spectrum and some optical experiments.
31	:::	Newton did experiment to explain the day light to dispute Hooke. Prizm reflect and refract color white physic mathematic lenses mirror use experiment. He did an experiment to improve the day light using prizm. Sun
32	:::	law of gravity did newton do to explain the day light to dispute hooke is 
33	:::	"Newton's crucial experiment was to refract light onto a piece of wood, into which had been drilled a small hole. In this way, he was able to obtain a beam of light with a pure color. He was able to show that blue light, for instance, when refracted through a second prism yielded again only blue light.

What experiment did Newton do to explain the day light to dispute Hooke ?
What is Descartes approach in conducting Science. Explain.
What are the contributions of Galileo to Science ?
Please explain the achievements in Astronomy in 1 sentence by 
Copernicus:
Tycho Brahe:
Kepler:
there are 2 major approaches in studying the astronomy from Greeks to Newton. What are these and Explain"
34	:::	he directed the beam at a prism located in a darkened room.
35	:::	Hooke believed light corrupted material.Newton's crucial experiment.Refract light onto wood which drilled a small hole.
36	:::	"he expalied it by walking at night if you start to walk fast then faster to make a good presure to see like 
Hooke said nothing will happen there will be no light so that how newton dıpsute hooke"
37	:::	"He made a hole in his window shutter, allowing just one beam of sunlight to enter the room. Then took a glass prism and placed it in the sunbeam. The result was a spectacular multicolored band of light just like a rainbow.
"
38	:::	Newton passed the bottle through the glass prism and  he then directed light into a prism  refracted the light onto a white piece of paper.
39	:::	spectrum of light
40	:::	according to the theory if we move fast the light hit much strongs but it was not true the theory. The theory was mistake. 
41	:::	"Running at night. His idea is if a man run the night his pressure against to aether and air wins and he can see better but it couldn't be real and he says Hooke idea's is wrong.

motion light law earth sun newton force science object Galileo one time scientific air"
42	:::	"He used a prism to split colors inside white light. 
"
43	:::	Running at night. His idea is if a man run the night his pressure against to aether and air wins and he can see better. But it couldn't be real and he says Hooke idea's is wrong.
44	:::	Newton invented his own telescopes and explained the day light to dispute Hooke.
45	:::	"Newton published his law of motion.
F=MA
action raction 
ınternia"
46	:::	He seperated the light into the different colors of light. And proved that using refracion for telescops can give error.
47	:::	When Hooke was looking at cells from his microscope, he saw some colors on the edges. So he suggested that every color adds to or added to color white. Newton disputed this by buying a prism and making white light go through it. Each color emerged. After that he isolated color orange and put it through another prism. This time only color orange went through so he concluded that white is combination of all colors.
48	:::	He used prisma for the see the specturn of the day light and he explain the day light to dispute Hooke.
49	:::	he said if the sun's pressure makes us see the daylight then why we don't see better while we run 
50	:::	Newton was passed light to prism and he pass orange color to prism repeat . The other colors did not exist but they should exist according to Hooke, Hooke think that single color has white color too but Newton discover that this is wrong.
51	:::	weakness of white light
52	:::	Hooke said that there are all colors in white light(day light)  . When newton purchased a prism and firs he send  the white light in prism and then  again he get through light and there was not any color 
53	:::	Newton discovered that white light was composed of some colorful rays in the spectrum.He took 2 prism and orange colour then made an experiment .He could not see another light anymore after the second prism. After that , he devised reflect telescope. 
54	:::	He used a prisma to bend the white light and find out that white light is composed of other color rays which are rainbow colors.
55	:::	"he took daylight and let it go through a prism(45degree) and light turned rainbow colors then
he took orange light and let it go through a prism and nothing happened . so he convinced that orange light has no other ingridents. "
56	:::	He brought a prisma and he passed it through it and the white light spectrums  becomes lots of diffrent colours spectrums.
57	:::	"Newton observed what the gravity is. And he calculated about gravity.
Robert Hooke observed tiny things by telescope and microscope.According to Newton every falling will fall same time."
58	:::	Newton made triangle prisma experiment and with this he approaches all color comes from white but Hooke said completely different he tought that is associated with changing subject which light directly goes inside.
59	:::	 He found that refracted white light turns into a spectrum of colours if sunlight passed from the prism.
60	:::	Newton used a prism to separate the spectrums of light and then isolated orange colour of the light. He then put a prism in front of orange coloured light but any colour wasn't added after orange colour went through the prism.
61	:::	
62	:::	  He sent the day light ( white light) to a prizm with 45 degrees angle then the day light seperate other colors spectrums So he said  taht day light include the other colors.
63	:::	He discovered Newton explained his model 
64	:::	His motion laws explained against the Hooke.
65	:::	He send the white light to a prism and made the orange light alone. then he send this orange light to another prism and see there is no other color.
66	:::	"he send a white light to prism and the white light made difference color spektrums.
Hooke produced white from to  dark light is from to weakness but newtons prove the white light have different colors and they have specific angles after the bead."
67	:::	
68	:::	He used a prism and orange light. But its not showed other colours its just showed orange , then Newton tried again with white lights. This time prism showed different colours.
69	:::	"running at night Hooke thought light goes with pressure.
But Newton says light is particular and he says hook was wrong."
70	:::	
71	:::	Newton send the day light to first prism and he knew that he will see the rainbow colors. He used second prism and isolated the orange light and send to prism. He saw that the orange light behind the prism. So Newton was right, the day light contain the colors. The prism don't produce a color.
72	:::	 The refraction of sunlight into colors by a prism had been observed . It was generally thought that the 'pure' white light was contaminated by 'gross matter' to yield colors
73	:::	He putted a prizm with 45 degrees angle front on the day light(white light) And he saw different color on wall. Those are spectre of white light. After that, he agin putted prizm front on orenge light and he saw that nothing change. Therefore, Newton found spectre of light.
74	:::	Newton is the most important and efficent people who interrested in the science in history.Because he calculated the areas of circle with archimedes.then he started the foundations of modern phisichs.movements rules are developed by Newton and now a days still we use hims theory about modern phisihcs .He calculated some mathematical theory. also he found optics and movements of lights.Hooke is found k (yay sabiti)and 
75	:::	the white is a weak colour and we can split its colours.White rays split when coming 45 degree to triangle prisma and split colours .and the made rainbow colours.
76	:::	light is weaknes . and use prisma white light convert to different color.
77	:::	He did light experiment , also called prism experiment.  He took beam of white light and  directed light into prism . After  refraction of white light , white light split into 7 colored lights. light experiment showed that white light is compose of spectrum of colored lights.  
78	:::	He sent the white light to cube then the light was converted rainbow colors. 
79	:::	He used a triangle to see white lights spectrum. Hooke thought other colors that come from day light like orange blue etc. are has spectrums too. But when newton reflect these colors that have been already reflected from prism , he discovered that color doesnt has another spectrum. They acting like independet rays and its hasn't spectrums.
80	:::	Hooke said there is a weakness of spectrums. white/bright to blue/darkness weakness increases. Newton seperated white light to spectrums. 
81	:::	Newton sent white light to prism and saw white then he sent orange light and saw nothing. There was a saying that air preasure aswell.
82	:::	"Newton's crucial experiment was to refract light to a hole that peace of wood he obtain light pure color spectrum . show that blue light for instance, when refracted through a second prism yielded again only blue light
enlightment "
83	:::	Newton explained the day light problem with motion of earth so earth circles around the sun thus in the half of the world will be night.
84	:::	"Newton
The color spectrum was explained as weakness of white light. That is, as light moved across the spectrum from white/bright to blue/darkness weakness increases - Robert Hooke
Every Element absorbs certain wavelength producing a unique pattern of spectra
He tried to see in the dark while pressuring to air but does not work"
85	:::	Newton believed that light is coming from object to observer. In a dark room a beam of light comes to an object and  it reflect. If the light comes from observer to object than we can not see anything in a dark room. it is the proof of his idea. 
86	:::	Newton observed the daytime and tried to understand day light. He used prism and when you pass through the daylight to prism you can get color spectrum. You can get many colors. Daylight is week light.
87	:::	He thought according to the theory if we move fast, the light hit much stronger. It wasn't true so the theory was wrong.
88	:::	he used light and it pass through the prism and lights went out as scale.
89	:::	Newton want to research white light is pure and than he take prism and give the orange light.the orange pass into the first prism but in the second prism it don't pass so newton reach the white light is pure
90	:::	Newton used a prism to split day light to rainbow colors. He proved that white color made up of other colors.
91	:::	Newton made a experiment with a prism. First he used white light, and he saw that it is not pure. It separated to other colors. Then he did this experiment again by using orange light. At the end he prove that white light is composed of the other colors. So he disputed Hooke.
92	:::	Newton did  the experiment  that 
93	:::	newton experıments is exıt light into a piece of wood, which had been drilled a small hole
94	:::	He ran towards an air current to see if light, air and aether would get in his eyes. It didn't, so Newton disputed Hooke's theory.
95	:::	He did observation on stars. Also he did experiments like using prism. With white light going inside of a prism, he could see its spectrums. With using second prism he tried the same thing with just orange spectrum which came from white light.
96	:::	He took one prism and send a white light with 45 angle so he found a results of white light contains all the colours. 
97	:::	He used a prism and send a white light with a 45 degree angle, then he managed to find out that light has perfect ray spectrums with each indiviuals lined by rainbow colors, then he put the output light to an orange colored prism and foundt out that it has nothing to do with the color. So the experiment he did was sending white light to prism with 45 degrees.
98	:::	Newton found the sun light has spectrums .  And he found light can change direction when it goes the different place such as air to water.
99	:::	Newton has used light prism to explain day light. And also newton refract light onto a little wood hole. and newton observes  beam of light with pure colors. If color is blue after  reflected from prism light's color again blue.
100	:::	"He used a triangle prisma , the daylight comes in and comes out as 7 main colors
law of inertia"
101	:::	"Newton's crucial experiment was to refract light onto a piece of wood, into which had been drilled a small hole. In this way he was able to obtain a beam of light with a pure color. He was able to show that blue light for instance when refracted through a second prism yielded again only blue light.

Newton send a white beam to a prism and its seperated to rainbow colors with 45 degrees angle.This experiment was changing with color of the beam and angle's too."
102	:::	he forwarded light into a prism so the light got distributed into its spectrums.
103	:::	He send a light to prism with 45 degree angle.Light is ceperated to colour pieces each different.And he understands the white light includes the  other colours.
104	:::	he send light to a prism with 45 degree and he get rainbow colors and that shows him that white light includes all lights after that he used another prism and learned that it wasnt about the spectrum of the light it was all about the 45degree
105	:::	Newton sent white light to a prisma with 45 degree than he realised white light have different spectrum .Light have different waves so wight light have them all.
106	:::	Hooke's theory is god's light is changed color by matters. Nowton seperated colors by prizms and isolated every light spectrum exept one. then when the light hit sometings it should change colors right? No it does not so Newton disproofs Hook's theory by this method.
107	:::	newton sent a light beam through a prism with 45 degree angle, the light split into spectrums of colors. Hooke believed colors were weakness of white. the prism experiment
108	:::	he used a prism with white light and there were so many colors he blocked the orange color and there were no lights at the second prism so he understood the white light is the combination of the all lights (he found reflecting telescope) with that experiment newton explained the day light to hooke 
109	:::	"He uses prizma for explain the day light 
When the sunlight enters and quits into the prizma the sunlight direction doesn't change "
110	:::	Using a prism and sending the Sun light to it with 45 degrees and splitting the Sun light to different colors.
111	:::	He wanted to test if daylight was composed of other lights.So he passed daylight through a lens, refracting it and passing orange light through another lens to find out.
112	:::	Newton used a prism to show the different spectrums of the light.
113	:::	Newton used prism to explain day lights specturms is not pure.He put prisim and used mirrors to make light to break to other colors.
114	:::	He used two prism to dispute Hooke.He put the white light into firsat prism and he saw the rainbow colorsa on the other side of prism. then he isolated the orange color aqnd made it go through the second prism but he saw there is no color on the other side of prism. so he understood that white light isn't pure it contains trhe rainbow color.Hooke was telling if white light goes to dark/blue,weakness increases.he said that it is bnot about the light's pressure on our eyes,if it would be 
115	:::	"newton did the experiment that contains an pyramid made of glass to reflect the white light into light spectrums

"
116	:::	He took two prisms.The white light refracted in the first and goes two the second prism as orange.But it didn't reflected.So in conclusion he said that white light is the sum of other lights.
117	:::	Experiment that he send the light to prisma with 45 degree angle and found light is not only white light, it has whole color.
118	:::	Hooke said light about pressure but Newton said the light should come from objects to eye. Then he send the white light a prism with 45 degree angle and then he saw the rainbow. He said each color has specific angle. 
119	:::	He took a prism and adjusted it's angle to 45 degrees so it would break(?) the light in such a way that it would create the spectrums of white light.
120	:::	He took an prism and let daylight go through that prism. This way he found spectrums. He seperated colors in daylight and he put another prism in front of an color ray. Color ray didn't changed. Hooke said that daylight is unseperatable it is a firm thing but Newton proved that Hook is wrong.
121	:::	light
122	:::	according to Hooke there was a pressure to transmit the light like two ends of a stick. so Newton ran at night.  he should have see further faster and better but it didn't happen. also there was no aether. 
123	:::	He put the light in prisim and than he realised white light have all colors. Every color have specific angle.
124	:::	Newton used a prism and let the white light pass through it. On the other side of the prism, it creates multiple different colors
125	:::	"Newton split white light into using 45 degrees prism and through prism split into color of rainbow.
He used two cylinder. First cylinder he used white light and second cylinder he seperated orange light and tried again but no result for it."
126	:::	"Newton is showing that white light is composite consisted in taking beam of white light and passing it through a prism conclusion is beam displaying a spectrum of colors .Newton checked if White color is pure. He does it with a prism. It is known that rainbow effect can be obtained by transmitting White light. He isolates the orange color and pass it through second prism. He finds there is no other colors behind the second prism. So he concluded that White color is made up other colors.
"
127	:::	He isolated color of orange and saw that there is nothing behind the second barrier in the prism. So white color must be consist of all the colors. He also disproved that the light is traveled by pressuring aether because if that were true then we would be able to have clear vision at night by running forward.
128	:::	He bought two glass prism. Then he send white light to one of these prism with 45 degree. And he seperate the orange beam from others. And then he send this orange beam to another prism. Concluded day light isn't pure. White light isn't pure.
129	:::	Newton invented Calculus.
130	:::	To disprove that the light doesn't apply pressure to be able to see, one should be able to see clearer when he ran in the dark. Since, that is not true; it's disproven this way. He also purchased a prism and reflected white light through it to show that white light consumed all of the colors of the rainbow, and he also showed that those colors that are in the rainbow doesn't consume any other color prior. 
131	:::	In Newton's experiment ,  He discovered the when light pass the spectrum with a 45 degree , light split like a rainbow.  Each color has predice and spesific angles of reaction.
132	:::	Prism refraction experiments 
133	:::	the newton explain that with lenses and telescope.