  Ottomans was good at making map.
  Romans are used to theater for cricitising their government.Sometimes they used to theater for wrong politic decisions,sometimes cricitising bad politicians.
  the calender 
 "1-Consunls 2-assemblie
 12 law of something
 According to laws the man is not guilty until the charge is proven, i mean man is still innocent until the crime is exactly proven. He ,s not guilty until proof.
 If someone were to commit a crime, he would be punished severely in the way he committed the said crime.
 In Roma, Senators prohibited to involve in trading and such activities because it can cause conflict of interest. Let's think a senator involve such activity(trading), he or she could mislead the government politicly to make more profit and this leads conflict of interest.
 The Conflict political struggle between the commoners and aristocrats of the ancient Roman Republic lasting from greeks.They discussed and thet becomed more healhty government.
 what is conflict of Interest. How did Romans apply it in Government.
 12 tablet
 they tried their best to make perfect system 
 They created Assembly, Senate, Consule.
 monarchy
 Conflict could do pass the law. İn the Romans law mostly made by senate and this conflict worked as advisory for king and senate
 Conflict of Interest is an individual personal interest. Romans apply with three section. Consulans, ..., Assebeliers.
 Conflict of Interest is there is no one man in the lead. Romans has Senate, consuls and assemblies.
 Something like political struggles between in aristocrats and people. They seperated the power of goverment to three organizations; senate, consuls, assemblies.
 Romans 's greatest problem is power . power very important for romans goverment. so romans have a many war . so roman empire lose a power."""
 1st law is about velocity when planets is far theit velocity is slower. 2nd law area is always same 3rd law periods In Kepler's Orbiting sun is the center. 
 A conflict of interest occurs when an individual's personal interests could compromise his or her judgement, decisions, or actions in the workplace. Government agencies take conflicts of interest so seriously that they are regulated.
 A people known for their military, political, and social institutions, the ancient Romans conquered vast amounts of land in Europe and northern Africa, built roads and aqueducts, and spread Latin, their language, far and wide. On the other hand Greeks were not efficient at that much on these.
 A situation where individuals social state can affect his or her judgements, decisions or acts. Romans used division of power and councils to avoid it.
 According to Greeks earth was the center of universe. And Earth doesn't move. Kepler says; The sun centre of universe and the other planets around the sun also when the satellite slow down it comes low eclips if it accelerate it goes higher eclipse.
 "According to Roman, one person do not decide because before government and people should decide. Senato = In the Roma, Government asked decision to Senato Consul = If 2 consul said yes, the situation accept Assembilies = Like government
 Person's best interest is not in the best interest of another person or organization. It rises political struggle between the Plebeians and Patricians
 Conflict means church's clear rule to the person who is regraded from church. In 8th centuries church has so many rules about science. So people who have ideas about science they have to obey rules and reformed their ideas for church. In Romans they put 12 Tablet Rules and people can do everything with obeying that rules. "
 Adam Smith was thinking that the government should only work for justice and keeping the order and maybe for bridges and roads. He was thinking government shouldnt involve with economy.
 albenia,bulgaria,kosova,
 Algebra geometry calendar calculus (mathematic) 
 Ancient Greeks noted that planets would appear to move backwards against background to stars perodically. After Greeks scientist thaught planets travels around the sun with a circular order and then Kepler discovered that planets travel around sun with an elliptical order.
 Ancient Greeks used science for explaining the nature and questioning, Romans used it for developement of the civilization and society. Because of this, Romans developed a lot of things still being developed and used today such as democracy, law etc.
 ansiclopedia ,books, archeologıcal temples 
 Aristarchus assumed the epicycles of planets and Kepler found elliptic movements.
 Aristo thinked earth is centered and every object rouned with earth Kopernik thinked: sun is at the middle and world rounded after it. Kepler agree kopernik but world has a eliptic line .
 Aristotle thought earth is the center of the universe and the other planets and sun spins around the word. Instead of Aristotle, Kepler thought opposite. He thought sun is in the center and planets moved around the sun and if the distance between sun and planets gets higher planets moved slower but if the distance between sun and planets gets lower planets moved faster
 At Ancient Greeks there were belief that there were perfect shape of that retrograde movement.There were lots of research about astronomy.
 at the same time the retrograde have same area and the all retrograde have a constant t^2/r^3.
 before, in greeks, people can write to information on tables and walls. but later, people find the papers and people start to write information to papers. because of that informations were not lost.
 Books, encylpedia (ansiklopedi), Internet.
 Both of them contributed the humanity but Greeks focus on facts and what they need to rather than how.Romans also focus on how things happen.
 build , theater , road,olimpics ,
 Calender, calculus, algebra. agriculture tecniques
 clash of personal interest and professional duties. Romans divided power to Senate Consuls and Assembilies. each consuls can reject the decision of the others.
 Communities before the Greeks, improved themself about agriculture and practised the medicine. There are many invention after the Greeks. They invented the Theater and Drama. The viewers in theater have to make a decision and feel like had to choose a side. Thus, democracy has been created. Greeks also invented As element.
 confict of interest is about roman legal system. romans division of power seperated of 3 things conculs senate and assembles senate does not have some laws but it still important in this part senates couldn't englaged to bank interest
 Conflict of Interest is closing to experimentation and observation for new things on science. Romans are believing to churc rules.Romans apply it in Goverment with theatres and showing how to being new things with experemantation and observation.
 Conflict of Interest is having different ideas about something which are not support each other. 
 Conflict of Interest is like doing favor relatives. Romans used it in loyal systems in senor,
 Conflict of Interest is two or more parties conflicting on terms, rules or situations for their own view or benefits. Romans applied it having three independent administration organs to keep administratives from gaining too much power. 
 Conflict of Interest is when an individual's personal interest compremise with his/her judgment, action or decision. Roman's chose Senates and they didn't let Senates enter any trading business as to avoid conflict of interest.
 Conflict of Interest: in a case, if two sides of the case are the same, it is conflict of interest. In Romans, there was a system called Roman legal system. They founded twelve tables incluiding some rules like "right of father, public laws, sacred laws ". In Romans, they applied it for decide something in laws.
 conflict of interest in other words democracy is more vote will be winner. Romans apply it with democratic voting system.
 Conflict of interest is a situation that happen between two side. There is an event which is good for one person but not good for the other side. And also the first person know it. 
 Conflict of interest is a thing when the goverment did this it got bad consequences. Romans didn't want to senato did this. because of this senato become this job until they dead. They couldn't get another jobs. 
 conflict of interest is about romans legal system .roman s divison of power seperated of 3 things; consuls senate and assemblies . senate does not have some authorazition but it still important in this part senates hadn t engaged to bank interest for trading ...consuls have more authorazition
 Conflict of interest is basically a powerful person being able to split his/her personal work life from where he needs to be neutral and see things clearly. Romans applied it in Government via Senate. The Senators were forbidden to be merchants or any other job because the Romans wanted senators to be clear with their decisions.  
 Conflict of interest is must be something like : hire relative instead of qualified person. Romans applied it within 3 steps. They gave permission to consuls , senato and ( I couldn't remember the name of last one sir, sorry ) to judge and govering the people.
 Conflict of interest is people have different conflicts but sometimes this conflicts can not be the same. When people want different thing from each other this can be a conflict interest. In Romans there were senete assemblys and jury. That makes many things easier in Romans government.
 Conflict of interest is seperating the governments most fundamental 3 powers such as : judgement, running, creating laws. Romans applied it due to hierarychic instutions.
 conflict of interest is the obligation for someone to make something that he/she dont want to. Its necessary for develop the government. Romans used Athens's bad condition and take advantage of it. 
 Conflict of interest is when somebody make decision to their benefit rather than countrys benefit. Romans prevented this with banning the senator to do any job that brings them income and paid to them for lifetime. 
 Conflict of interset is when a person or group has multiple interests and he choses to comply with the one that contributes to his own interest. In Romans, members of senate were forbidden from having any other job other than their job in the senate. For preventing this to happen members of senate were given money a place to stay and food to eat.
 Consuls , Assembly, Senato Consuls-Government chose two consuls . They are military and govern head of state . Veto others consuls idea Senato - It has not power legal rule, advised consuls and kings Assembly - can pass rule 
 consuls dont take place to economical relations. they dont take to money and they was isolated from the publics.
 Consuls were forbidden to trade and gain money probably Roman's aimed to prevent corruption.
 Consuls: Big cities have consulates and this cities govern from consuls. That makes it easier the run empire. Senato: Assemblies: Rules comes here and if it is accepts by assembly it become a rule.
 Democracy, Theatre, Library(Alexandria), Alpabet(alpha to omega).
 developing agriculture , discovered math and numbers, applied engineering, used calendar
 Developing technology and founding printing. After founding printing, information dissemination is faster. Government could not distrupt the dissemination of information. 
 Encyclopedias , books , historical places and constructs are landmark achievements for Greek Dissemination.
 Encylopedia 
 estimating number pi,geometry theorems like pythagorean theorem and volume of a sphere, math theorems invented numbers discovered calculus,they wrote medicine and surgery books(heart push and pull reaction),theater,Astronomy and calenders.
 Estimation of earth's diameter. Aristo was the first scientist that classified animals. 
 even today Some of the Greeks laws is true (suçunun ispatlanmadıgı bir kimse suçsuzdur). 
 every planet move around the world and world is center universe . There are two set of moveing for retrograde defent , epicrcle
 Everybody had different jobs and missions. They didn't have one person's rejim. Justice, parlemonto and government seperate each other. Therefore, they had the real democracy .
 Everybody thinks their own interest. For example most of people don't want lose money for another person earn much money. Romans used division of power because of it. They iaid assemble and senate.
 Everybody works with their own interest in Roman Government such as senate, conculs and assemlies. This is conflict of interest. 
 Example for landmark achievements: Printing press,Calendars,Copernic and Galileo rules...
 example one person work two busıness and he mixed this work each other. This is consols and senator at Roman Government. Consols give decide about of government also senators give decide but consols are more important than senators.
 First of all they created theatres indepently. That was the first step of Democracy and also it was a revolution. Most of their plays doesn't exist now. It is enough to understand them.
 First of all, Scientist claimed the center of the Universe is World and the planets moves around the World. But after that, scientist claimed the center of the Universe is Sun and planets are sphere and moves circular and in a path. Kepler claimed there are some laws. These are law of ellipses, law of equals areas and laws of horizontials.
 "First they believe in geocentric universe witch means earth is the center of the universe then the helicentric universe witch means sun is the center of universe and kepler has three laws about the universe ; when earth is the closest to the sun earth is fastest. 
 Aristotle said the universes center was earth and all other planets orbited around it. Bruno disagreed to that idea and said that Universe was infinite and has no celestial body as it's center. Kepler's observations proved that planets were orbiting around the sun as not circles, but ellipses.
 in greeks they thought planets orbit is like circle but kepler thought that everything much meaningful when the orbit of planets is elliptical.
 At first planets were thought to be perfect spherical heavenly bodies that moved in circular motion. Through the information gathered, by the Kepler's time it was clear that planets moved in elliptical motion.
 Greeks proposed right circular constant distance orbit. Kepler proposed elliptic not constant distance orbit except Greeks. It means the distance of planets can change about time.
  Pulling force is up to mass of planets and their radius. 
 Before Kepler people think that Sun, other stars and planets rotates around to Earth. However Kepler explore that planets such as Earth turn around stars such as Sun.
 Every planet move in the orbiting system. For exampleş Earth move around of Sun
 Planets moving backwards relative to background stars.
 Retrograde means that seeing the planets in opposite way that they are moving. Greeks thought planets have stabil motion. They used stars for proving that. Because every January and July they see same stars in cross place. So Kepler said that it is because of Earth's motion not because of stability. Also Greeks philosophers ideas helped to Kepler to calculate and think about science.
 greeks between keplers the other peoples makes lot of calculation on orbits and every calculation is get close the true . and in the end kepler makes true calculations on orbits kepler find the eliptic orbits but greeks dont thing like that. 
 create legal government system - consuls , Assembly, Senato Romans discovery 12 table , newspaper, book board , julian calendar, heagway and bridge, battel in arena,concret, aqueducts"
 For Roman Legal System the people who getting judge is innocent until the guilty of the men has been proven.
 For Romans rules was very important. Romans made the continuty of democracy with the help of laws. They invented laws and 12 tables rules. Greeks the idea of democracy was base to theatre.
 for the Kepler; there is a circle and planets moves around it.İt may be true or false. Because some philosophers thinked that it changes from view point ,planets does not move.
 For the Romans Humanity and laws of humanity was very important. So they have lots of contributions to humanity
 For the Romans humanity was very important.
 founding telescope microscope, founding formulas and their aplicatioon and founding archimedes laws
 From Earth, other celestial bodies seemed to be moving back and forth against the background of stars periodically.
 Generally Greeks produce somethings and Romans try to maintain the contributions.
 Geocentric model would be waiting be true. Because the humanity wants to be the center of universe. Of course we are just a point maybe smaller than it. By kepler studies we know that there is no center in this universe.
 Greek people didn't understand de basics of movement of planets. They have different estimations about which are not coming from calculations but observations. But Kepler was a great scientist especially for his era. He determined three laws. How planets attract each other depends on their mass and what is the reason behind the way they move. Their movement was calculated by him.
 Greek temples and theatres are still surviving landmarks up to this day.
 greeks dont understand the retrograde movement they thought that the other planets rotated to our world. but this case not true . because of the speed of the planets, we show the illumination. this is not real. when the planets close to sun, its speed will increase. so we see this event. like when we pass the car and we see the car is going bacj but it is not true, this is a illumination
 Greeks aimed that they can follow the moons movements. So they decided to propose account for the retrograde movement of planets. Kepler was a scientist who spent time on astronomy, orbitals, planets etc.
 Greeks are different from Romans because they were ruled by democracy. Democracy would keep people in more politica. Also they invented the theatre so the people were inflenced by the theatre Romans were more different because they have different subjects on the stage. When the theatre was different, people were different. Romans theatre was more about social issues.
 "greeks are have more humanity than romans . because they(romans) are so stick on citizene.but greeks care about people . and therefore greeks gave to their people to vote right.
 Greeks are more involved with science, astronomy, tragedy and theater. Romans were more curious about relationships. They both contribute the humanity in terms of science, theater, relationships, astronomy, laws etc.
 Romans contributed more on stuructural and military services for humanity while Greeks were more about science and philosophy.
 Romans leans towards technology(civil and military) rather than science.But greeks mainly focuses on science rather than applications of it.
 Romans are more strict than Greeks for humanity. Their punishments are so hard and they try to avoid them again.
 they forgetted to work about improving of humanity.Estetical art were more important than about contributions to humanity .
 How do Romans differ from Greeks in terms of Contributions to Humanity
 Romans invented olympics 
 Greeks contributed more in terms of drama, theater and philosophy, while Romans contributed more in engineering and healthcare like building roads and highways, aqueducts, doing surgeries etc.
 greeks were more democratic, social
 Greeks Theaters are amfi. Romans Theaters buildings are more different. Arcitechture improved because of Roma.
 people can use Romans some contribitions even today for example newspaper. Greeks contribitions mostly unusefull for today for instance catapults. I mean contribitions were social contribitions.
 Romans created power of judgement with helped humanity be in a little less risk and avoid crimes. 
 Romans usually were in wars. So they made something about government, economy and war. They built adequets, highways, and trading roads and found calendars. They pass the laws for community.
 Within the scope of legal innovations, the foundations of most of the laws used today were laid by the Romans. They provided the development of democracy with the representation system instead of monarchy.
 Humanity very important for Romans . Romans make a trade way for humans and upgrade a economy . And they make a trade network. science very important for romans and They does a explore . So many found a technology.
 Roman's made aquadects, roads, bounded books, newspaper, Julian calendar. This things made Humanity better.
 Romans better than Greeks.
 romans legal laws differ from greeks because romans use division of power not only a king romans use twelwe tables and in terms of astronomy romans sciencist find more thing than greek sciencist .for example romans find newspaper julian calendar bound books welfare this thing contributions for people in my opinion
 Romans were more wild and they used to have wars a lot. Greek people was also good at war but they used to care about cultural war too. Romans spread Christianity. Greeks created theatre and democracy.
 Romans belived that if there is no prove. then you can not say guilty anybody. The Romans found a job called lawyer. They accepted division of power.
 Romans change monarchy to representation. They built courthouses. Accuses are not true until its proven. They gave chance people to prove themselves.
 Greeks was more efficient for humanity than the Romans. Romans mostly improved in military engineering or military medicine unlike Greeks. Greeks studied so many different kind of scientific areas. They studied astronomy, mathematics, geometry, medicine, philosophy and so on. Actually they seperated the different scientific areas into distinct disciplines. 
 Greeks used science to solve the secrets of nature and find solutions for their problems But Romans mostly used science to apply it into engineering(mostly civil engineering) like archs, aquetects and military like battlefield surgery for treatment immediately to soldiers, making roads to make it easy for armies.
 romans used to observation and theory but greek only used to theory 
 Newspaper,Military surgency,Julian Celender,Juris concept """" Accused is innucent until proven quilty"
 Greeks are thinking center of universe is earth and planets are great. Kepler things center of universe is sun.
 Greeks assumed that planets were making small heveanly circural movement but Kepler prove that they turn around sun in a ellipse orbit and when they get close to sun they were speeding up.
 Greeks claimed earth is the center of the universe and other planets orbiting around it by circle shape. According to Kepler sun is the midpoint of universe and other planets orbiting around sun by ellipse shape.
 Greeks contributed to the foundation of the systematic science, philosophy, arts and cultures. Therefore their contributions were more abstract. Romans mainly established the basics of the current justice system. Gave more concrete inventions like newspaper, Julian calendar, concrete, roads and highways.
 Greeks didn't have class of people completely, but Romans seperated people class by class. Greeks communicated together but Romans didn't do that.
 greeks did'nt know eliptic movement. for greeks, world in center of universe. later, kepler said world make eliptic movements in universe.
 Greeks established the first theater, found the first academy, developed geometry, philosophy and they developed mathematics. They were the foundation of democracy. Shortly they contributed to humanity through science and art. But Romans contributed the most to humanity technologically and by the means of engineering.
 Greeks found drama. They also wanted to observe nature and find the evidence of everything. They did a lot of work in Maths, science and so on
 Greeks founded a stuctral classification for the information dissemination. 
 greeks had so many achievements for humanity but developing printing technology is so important thing for information dissemination.and there is also contributed to information dissemination:Aristotle is student of Plato and he teached AlexanderThe Great
 Greeks have democracy so people who live in there had more relax place to living and thinking. Humanity was more important. Also they had a lot of Gods and Goddeses. Their religion was able to use Contributions to Humanity. 
 "Greeks have two idea about movement of planets.First was Geocentrism(Geocenter). Geocenterism(Geocenter):Earth is stabil and center of the universe and other planets turning around it. Second was Heliocenter. Heliocenterism(Heliocenter):The sun is the center of the universe and other planets turning around it.
 Aristo thought earth was the center and sun, stars and other planets was spinning around it. Kepler proposed earth and all the other planets was moving around sun and it's orbit is elliptical."""
 Greeks made abstract contributions to humanity like theatre, democracy of philosophy. They were more peaceful than the Romans. But the Romans improved engineering, battlefield surgery and so on. More like building massive things and they try to powered their economy. They wanted to rule the whole world and their inventions were in that way.
 Greeks made much differ about the social life, government works and drama. Actually, drama is the important thing for humanity.Also, democratical works has started at Greeks terms. Romans found 12 Tables Law.
 Greeks mostly made contributions to humanity about thinking, consepts, philisophy, how to think correctly. But Romans made contributions mostly about material thinks like concrate, aquaducts, roads and bridges, how to war efficiently. So greeks did the thinking and Romans the hard work.
 greeks opinion was that earth is center of üniviverse and sun orbiting to earth so,their opininon is not true for example archiment opinion .but kepler was certainly described movements of planets he have 3 laws ı want to described this laws for explaining . laws of ellipse:earth is round and      law of equal areas =when planets near to sun their movement is faster. law of harmony :for every planets there is constant formula t squares /rcube=1 (t =year)
 Greeks said eveything has reason and abstraction is so important because just theory is not enough. They choose theatre for dissemination of information.
 Greeks say the planets arround the sun make elipces rotation but for the Kepler they made orbiting movements.
 Greeks taught we are the center of universe and planet orbiting around us. But according to today's knowledge its not true.
 Greeks think geocentric model, Kepler found heliocentric model with his 3 important law.
 Greeks think the planets didn't make retrograde movement, they think the planets draw small circles on the orbits. Kepler discovered that is not about the other planets' movements but it's about the earth's movement around the sun.
 Greeks thinked that planets moved backwards and called this motion retrograde movement. Copernicus thinked that planets do not move at all, they seem to be moving from our point of view. Kepler thinked that earth rotates around it's axis and around the sun. He discovered the orbits.
 Greeks thinks planet orbital is circle but Kepler found planet orbital elips
 Greeks thought earth just move its axis and other planets move around the earth. Then Kepler said earth moves around sun on ellipse. And earth's velocity increases when it closes the sun and decreases when it is far away the sun.
 Greeks thought planets moving up and down.However they couldn't explain the some of movements.Kepler found the retrograde movements theorem for these planets.
 Greeks thought that heavenly bodies were perfect so they were revolving as perfect spheres. And kepler applied math and tools. And Kepler have seen that retrograde is far from perfect.
 Greeks thought that planets move backward ( retrograde movement ). when you look at the sky at night in winter and summer,you will see the stars but not like in winter.It will be like mirror reflection.Because in solar system,when the season is summer,you are in the other side of sun.And Kepler orbiting was supporting this idea.
 Greeks thought that the Earth in the center of Universe and it is not round. But humanity had realized in time that there is no planet or star in the center of Universe and the Eart is round its own orbite and the orbite of Sun.
 Greeks thought the earth was round.
 Greeks used observation supported their theory unlike before (just observation,not theory)and this was landmark.
 Greeks used science not only practical tools , but also to explained nature. Nowadays we are still see the Greeks contributions to science. Like mathematic, astronomy, biology. 
 Greeks used tablets, pappiruses for archiving informations. And Greeks have a lot of philospohers. Those philosophers proved mathematical formulas. They archived formulas, books. Even if they archivedideas. So because of this attention about information they reached today.
 Greeks used to this information and invented the calendar and something. Kepler orbiting informating very important this.
 Greeks was thinking earth is center of the universe and planets orbiting around earth. kepler said that there have to be two movement one of this from earth axis another is around sun.
 Greeks was thinking that the earth is the center of the universe (geocentric) after Kepler heliocentric which means sun based orbit system is came.
 Greeks(Aristotle) thought that everything revolve around earth. The Earth is center of the Universe. Kepler improved astronomy because of Greeks.
 He said according to Kepler areas law:Planets's orbital scanning equal areas in equal time.He found T^2/R^3 formula.
 He would watch the planets' movements and trace their paths to hopefully find out about their orbitals.
 I do not know. 
 I do not know. 
 I don't have enough english for this question.
 "If someone stole something and he gets punishment for this. After that if another person do same thing he gets same punishment for stoling something. They made enormous highway. They have good battlefield surgery. They build buildings in different kind. They made a real laws.
 Romans are making travel network for Lejyons. After years these travel network is being really important. Because of ecenomy taking new invents and reach book about science. 
 Greeks have humanity,freedom,democrasy,theater .Romans clever about war and have theater like Greeks.Romans have conflict of Interest.
 Greeks focused on nature and tried to explain it using the science and they made a lot of progress for future scientists to move on from. Romans worked on laws and justice. So the difference between them are that Greeks contributed in science and physics when Romans contributed in law , order and governing."""
 If the government's desicions inflict the rulers' personal lifes in which way they want directly or undirectly, that is Conflict of Interest. The Romans divided the powers of the ruling systems for solving this problem. With seperation of powers, the power owners cannot made desicions on their own. 
 If we give an exampe to the conflict of interest its like this days the banks can not do trades. The Romans are apply it in Goverment by making divison of power.
 Improvment of publishing technology, Opening of academies and universities, Internet, Cellpones, 
 "ın Greeks' theater people warned the government with plays. But in Romans people couldn't do that. In this way Greeks's people feel themselves free. 
 Greeks invention the democracy.Also they founded theatre and drama.They were very succesfull theatre. They were very complexs civilizations.We use their invention at that time( for example drama).Also democracy is a very big invention.
 I do not know. 
 greek have otherıty but when time was romans it was delete and people could live easily
 Romans tried to write rules of humanity future.
 Greeks invented democracy and Athens was the capital of democracy. The Romans, developed the natural approach for their art. Greeks add a lot of contributions to humanity for instance drama, theater and most important thing is that democracy. 
 Greeks invented many things like theater and poetry. Romans took these things and adopted them. They focused on government and military issues.
 democracy was invented in Greece , Rome had a senate
 Greeks democracy culture was unique. Romans build a law which is none of the nations have in that time. Greeks are different in that aspects from Romans. Greeks also contribute humanity by theatre , drama , academy and pyholosphy..
 greeks try to found facts but romans try to find rules to predict the future.
 greeks were foucsing on prove the things but romans were not doing that they practeced medicine dıd math and used calender also they did engeeniring"""
 In Greeks they think about universe but they don't have real infomation about that. Kepler gets a lot of informations from Thyco Brahe and use informations to invent rules and proof somethings.
 "In Romans (senators,consule ...) can not do trade or banking . for example if you work for goverment yo can not do business. If consule member do trade he will use his position and earn a lot of money...
 Consols Assemblies "
 In Rome, there was Senate that provides advices to the consuls and in senate there were senators whose has some privilidges but this senators could not trade because they could used that power to become rich or they could use it to help their family etc. so the government paid them money. 
 In the Greeks, scientist observed moving of planets and stars and thet found some wrong, but they didn't try to prove that because of their religions. Then end of the some resurching Planets move compar path. andn it is retograde(bakcward)
 Information dissemination begin with printing processes. When printing tools, machines are invented, Greeks are achieved that landmarks. Maybe they also write their theatres in papers. Things like that are great landmarks in terms of information dissemination.
 ınterest of conflict is churcy didn't want to interest in science and they applied some bad thing who was interested science. for example galile was at home arrest because he wanted to teach sciene.
 It is freedom speech. Romans let people speak but it was different from Greeks democracy. They just listened them but didn't do what they say.
 It's theatre and democracy.
 in greeks people's behavior good and a little bit free to each other. but in romans, there are rules between peoples and governments because of that people cannot free to each other.
 in Greeks theatre and plays are important things for information, Romans used newspaper, After Roman's bounded book information stay safe. at Mid Era humanity used press machine and books get cheaper. so everyone can reach books. After the Industrial era we use radio, TV, and internet. 
 in greeks there were just observing. later we started to use this observing to reach some facts. now we use lots of techniques and steps 
 in greeks they saw the humanity from nature but in rome they saw the humanity is god of nature and humans is best thing in nature. also in greeks every people is equal but in romans they have class. 
 in greeks time, there was so much contribution to humanity. they used science as a tool in their contributions. but in romans time, romans used science not just tool also for explain the nature.
 in Roman government, poeple's opinions were very different from each other. because of that there was opinion fight between peoples lifes. Romans government think about that and they could find opinion for that. they made rules and people must accept that. that rules become laws. 
 in the beginnig of the word huamans wants to keep informations for other generation so in greeks they wrote on tablets and cave wall the information. 
 İnformation Dissemination begin ensiclopedia. Then we use internet,newspaper, television for information dissemination. Landwark of information dissemination is axioms.
 İnvention of compass. Compute of Sun's weight.
 Katiplik (I don't really know the English word for this, but I meant people who are professionally writing.), Printing Machine (Matbaa), Internet.
 Kepler found that the planets do not move in consistent velocity while orbiting around the Sun. The planets do not make a circular motion, they make elliptic motion. 
 kepler has found the distance of planets because of movement of planets.
 Kepler say all planets move around of sun. But Greeks say center of universe is earth and cosmos is geocentric.
 Landmark achievement is founding printing technology.
 landmark achievements in terms of Information Dissemination are ; invention of writing , printing presses, newspapers, books and librarys etc.
 Landmark of Information Dissemination is founding of printing technologies.
 Lawyer Law Prisoner
 Let me break it down for you. The Greeks created fundamental of today's politics. So actually we are using a system of Greeks. Today's goverment of the world next of Greeks.
 Mars location was look like different. So , I do not know the other things. 
 Most important one is the invention of writing. The others are encyclopedias, academies, invention of printing, libraries and internet for modern times.
 Moving planets around the Earth can't explain retrograde movement. So it showed to Kepler, planets not moving around of Earth.
 newspaper, theatre,
 Newspaper, theatre, printing 
 noble books , military surgery, roads and highways, military tactics .senata councle and assemlies
 number pi, law of lever, irrational numbers
 Orbiting is not in a circular way.
 people's personal things don't using at their job. in the romans, senators don't work in a bank.
 Poem book about greeks founded in library in Arabia. We can see that what greeks did if we look poem.
 printing press, Greeks use our number system(0-9).Greeks use science for explain nature.And Greeks created theater and drama,They have humanism,democrasy and freedom.
 Printing technology
 Prove something is really important for them. They try to predict the future with using the scientific thoughts.
 Ptolemy proposed epicycles which is little cycles surroended planets but Kepler propesed that orbits isn't perfect cycle, they have to be in an eliptic shade.
 Ptolemy's geocentric model trys to explain retrograde movement but it fails. Copernicus solve this mysterious movement with his heliocentric model.Kepler doesnt have contribuation in terms of retrograde movements but he found that planets orbits ellipticly.
 Retrograde is a moving of planets in complex paths. There were circles which were called epicycles in Kepler orbiting.
 Romans applied conflict of interest into their government by separating goverment into 3 parts. 1-Consuls 2-Senate 3-Asssemblies but they applied conflict of interest into senate because senators were unpaid and served for life. They were forbidden to work in banking and foreign trade. 
 Romans applied it in Goverment with their wars but they could not be succesful.
 romans apply division of power at their government. it is like monarchie to representation. they divide the government to 3 parts.
 Romans are more successful in military, arcitecture such as aquaways and concrit buildings ,and times and news such as newspaper and Julian calendar than Greeks.
 romans constructed to varying ways for economy and army. actually romans have a very powerful army and it governed by empire. they constructed building like Arches (su kemeri). and it invented to consuls and senato and meclis. they looks like current governement. 
 Romans created law and communication, and Goverment Greeks found the thearte and democraty,olimpics
 Romans created power of judgment which helped humanity be in a little less risk and avoid crimes. They created walfares to assist people in need ; concrete to help construction, help settlement ; newspaper to share information and they created calendars for people to perceive time.
 Romans created the twelwe table to provide justice and to protect humans.
 Romans didn't just defeat Greeks, they also used their historical monuments for their future. They used Greeks studies about science for healthcare. They behaved their monuments in a futuristic view.
 Romans didn't want the old Government. Because it wasn't fear and they wanted the change it.
 Romans focused on civil engineering and military engineeering.They were very advanced in architecture and the roads they build bring a huge income but the Greeks focused on democracy and philosophy. Greeks inspred a lot of nations and sciencetist .
 Romans Government wanted power. They fighted Greeks. They won. 
 Romans had differenties about ruling.Since they occupied Greeks they have changed somethings.Romans were different at ruling.Greeks got contributions about art,mythology,medical etc.
 Romans had more democritic public . They did not have much more slave like Greek . They did not want to live in monarshy. 
 Romans has a different thing called democrasy that weren't invented on Greeks time .
 Romans have Laws which greeks did not. Romans had three position for managining country. These are Console, Senato and Anbiartery. Greeks generally made science teoricaly but Romans applied experiments science..
 Romans have person who can vote. Romans 
 Romans helped to develop democratic understanding and they made laws for that Romans worked on astronomy and they invented of their own calender (not first). Romans twelve tables Romans also built roads and highways Roman numbers. In the other hand Greeks used observation and science to undestand nature And also Greeks made theatres and that helped to democracy as well (drama and comedy)."
 Romans interested more in social areas and greeks interested more in natural sciences. Therefore romans contributed to social düzen and greeks contributed to explanation of what's happening in universe from small to massive objects.
 Romans invented newspaper, highway and roads, battlefield surgery,bound book,a calender.
 Romans made 12 Tables Law (lawyer , jury,prison ,trial etc.) They had travel way. The ways's real aim is military but it contributed economy Romans had modern government ( consul ,senato ,assembilities etc.) Newspaper ,12 Tables Law and Luniar calendar etc. are discovered in the Roman term
 Romans was not approach to all of their people with the same way unlike Greeks. There is a system that divide the people's lives according to their family or their respect. This situation also reflected their theater. Even, the seats are placed up to up. 
 Romans were more likely to be engineers, because they invented a lot of practical and useful things like cement, highways, aquaducts, newspaper etc... And Roman's set up the first modern government. Greek's contributed humanity mainly in different ways, such as philosophy, early scientific methods and theater.
 Semposiums, Big Theaters etc.
 Senate or diplomatical person can not participate in economic measures. They do their job and their job only and government feeds them. They can not make money on their own. Romans use this to make diplomats objective about the problems they solve.
 Some of the scienist in Greeks purpose that World is center of Universe. Kepler's laws against it.World is going around the Sun. There are some formulas about distance and time)
 Thanks to their achievements in theater and drama, they reached wide range of people and disseminated information easily this way.
 The banks cannot do tradings .
 The banks couldn't do trade.
 The classic "Laws of the 12 tables", the norms of which were essentially principles, forbade taking bribes to judges, and then the Pontiffs forbade taking bribes to everyone.
 The Conflict 
 The conflict of interest is a state which a certain individual has duty to different individuals or organizations at the same time. In Rome, a member of the Senate was not allowed to do banking or foreign trade. This rule was established to prevent conflict of interest.
 The devolopment of the paper and stiblishing of books and enciclopedias by using tools like printingpress.
 the greeks are given very much information about today from a lot of years ago 
 The inability be neutral to due personal interest called ''conflict of Interest''. Romans time, Senota can't do banking and trading.
 "The Kepler Laws 1) The Laws of Ellipses: Planets return sun on elipses path.
 he thoght planets moving ellipses orbiting "" it means things want to move in straight line but big planet attract the other one so the other one's orbiting will be ellipses."
 The landmarks were wars and invention printing.
 The old rebuclic of the romans empires chose 2 people in government.But these people not elected to population.Populary meclis chose it.Roman government was not succesfull.
 The retrograde movement of planets is different from Kepler style. Kepler style is saying that the world rotating around of sun.
 The world center of universe. Every plantet movement around the world.
 Theater, democracy, polises, drama, 
 Theater, Drama and democrasy
 theater,books,newspaper,radio,tv,computer
 Theater. Greek calendar.
 theather,democracy,freedom,drama,tragedy
 Theatre and democracy one the biggest achivements in ancient history. 
 Theatre and the poetry are landmark achivements that Greeks done in terms of Information Dissemination.
 Theatre, democracy and philosophy.
 Theatre, structures, democracy
 Theatres, stadiums and books. Descartes father of philasophia.
 there is a 2 man and thay want something that it is the same , so they do not make freinds. Romans made some new things about it. Their soloon of judge had 3 things that they were solved this problem . they are assemblies, senate and congre.
 There wasn't democracy.They applied different types to every person.Then Romans founded Roman Laws.Romans thinked " a person who chatched isn't guilt until showed evidence. İf there isn't any evidence or something,this person is honest"Also judgements decided with before judgements.
 there were many speakers in Greece
 There were problems with the bank.
 There were tablets. They writted tablet every thing so the informations were permanent .
 There were three main position. These are Console, Senato and Anbiartery. These three position is important because of being fair to people.
 they are use science well . for example they defined science just observation unlike before and they strcicy deducted proof .information dissemination is print of techonology for them
 They declined monarchy system. They accepted representation system. And they built senato, courthouses.
 They denied Kepler orbiting and said planets have souls because they attract each other.
 They established the first academia. They had a democratic government and freedom of debate. Many Greek scholars wrote their foundings down.
 They found a newspaper for ınformatıon dissemination , They found a printingpress. And Greeks writing a information books.
 They found system of 12 tables.And they had senatos.Emperor was the strongest person who had every power but there were other parts of government who had part at ruling.
 They founded the first academy. They invented philosophy.
 They had got char(king). They used vote and choose the parlemento.
 they laied on voting system and had illimit empror he is having the last word and the punishment depends on what the king wants
 They made concrete,calendar,
 They proposed the retrograde movement were not accurate with the perfect spherical orbits or planets. Kepler proved it with his elliptical orbits law. 
 They said " All universe are moving around the world.The World is center of universe .
 They split the power of the government. There is lawyers, juries, etc. . Every part of the government had its own responsibilities and just a part of the power. So every part of the government could control its part and couldn not control the government itself(Devletin gücünü farklı birden fazla parta bölüp konsey, jüri ve avukatlar gibi. Gücü tek bir alanda toplamak yerine her bölümün kendi alanında belli bir güce sahip olmasına ve sadece kendi alanını ve altındakileri kontol etmesine imkan tanıyor böylece çıkar çatışmasını önlüyor)
 They talk about it in 12 Laws. Senates can't go in money bussines like bank company or goverment economy strategy . Because at the same time they are giving their suggest to empire or consul.
 They think planets makes small circles around earth , after that a new theory proposed ; the center of universe is the sun, and earth and other planets rounding around it
 they thought all other planets and stars was in orbit that earth centered
 They thought circle to be perfect and so they believed that every planet and star must rotate around the earth in a circular motion, but some early astrologers observed that some planets go backwards and forward in the sky periodically. 
 they use observation for science but Greeks supported their theory with observation.Romans was friendly
 They use observation to make theories like these days .They were beliving that nature has its own laws . They were no theories before them but there were many informations and they used these informations to make theories like today.
 They use some different words about law. They have consol-the venice; story jury to give verdict; prison to keep possible guilty under arrest
 They use the twelve tables. They divided the goverment three parts. 
 They used newspaper like Social Media and it has a impact on our Information Dissemination. 
 They used tablets and carved some shapes and a few symbols on them to keep some informations.
 They wanted to know universe. They wondered system of cosmos , and they were improving mathematics while they were searching cosmos.
 they were good at philisophy and it is very important nowadays. Good philopsy was made more understandable earth and people can understand somethings that is about " system of earth, who is the God, conflict of good-bad,...
 They were improved about art and literature.So till today lots of information about history,society came today.
 They wrote lots of books about science
 to find radius of world to find perimeter of world 
 "twelve table. Romans have 3 conflict of interest Shenato:Not have a big power but it change some idea. Little child:Romans have two.İts like king.When one king can't want other king's idea,this idea is dissmis.
 Conflict of interest is when
 Romans government was hard.
 Conflict of Interest is person's interests is different from governments desicions. And in Romans; it is what govenment says. (Kişinin çıkarı ile devletin verdiği kararların farklı olması durumunda çıkar çatışması ortaya çıkar. )
 Doing things that good for me but bad for someone or reverse.They did 
 the twelwe table  12 table instead of king there 3 part of to against to despotizm"
 Unlike before they did not use science as a toll to slove problems. They used science to prove their theorys they came up with observesion.
 What are landmark achievements from Greeks to Today in terms of Information Dissemination.
 What was proposed to account for the retrograde movement of planets from Greeks to Kepler orbiting
 When an individual, personal interests or social situations are conflicting between 2 people, that is the conflict of Interest. 
 While serving a play in theater, Greek people could make fun of their presidents in front of everyone. They were humble, and they were not afraid of any high-positioned person. But Romans used theatre only for make fun of Greeks. In Romans, the actors didn't allowed to make fun of presidents. 
 with the enlightment age, matbaa is developed to day by day. and with araps translation is increased and there are a lot of achievement about medicine, optics and the other area. logic gain to importance. 
 with the twelve table. councle , senata and assemlies
 Writing, paper, pencil, Encylopedia, the internet, printing press, library, academy.